
WikipediaThe Free Encyclopedia
Search Wikipedia
Create account
Log in

Personal tools
Contents hide
(Top)
Definitions
Impersonal
Interpersonal
Toggle Interpersonal subsection
Cultural views
Toggle Cultural views subsection
Religious views
Toggle Religious views subsection
Political views
Toggle Political views subsection
Philosophical views
See also
References
Sources
Further reading
External links
Love

Article
Talk
Read
View source
View history

Tools
Page semi-protected
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For other uses, see Love (disambiguation).
Part of a series on
Love
Red-outline heart icon
Types of love
AffectionBondingBroken heartCompassionate loveConjugal loveCourtly love courtshiptroubadoursFalling in loveFriendship cross-sexromanticzoneInterpersonal attractionInterpersonal relationshipIntimacyLimerenceLove addictionLove at first sightLove triangleLovesicknessLovestruckObsessive lovePassionPlatonic lovePuppy loveRomanceSelf-love Amour de soiUnconditional loveUnrequited love
Social views
Anarchist Free loveChinese RenYuanfenFrench Amour-propreGreek words for loveAgapeErosLudusManiaPhilautiaPhiliaPhilosPragmaStorgeXeniaIndian KamaBhaktiMaitrīIslamic IshqJewish ChesedLatin AmorCharityPortuguese SaudadeYaghan Mamihlapinatapai
Concepts
Color wheel theory of loveBhakti yogaBiological basisLove letterLove of ChristLove of God in ChristianityLove magicValentine's DayPhilosophyReligious views love deitiesMere-exposure effectSacred HeartSimilarityPhysical attractivenessTriangular theory of love
vte
Part of a series on
Emotions
Plutchik-wheel.svgPlutchik Dyads.svg
AffectClassificationIn animalsEmotional intelligenceMood
Regulation InterpersonalDysregulation
Valence
Emotions
vte
This article contains special characters. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols.
Love encompasses a range of strong and positive emotional and mental states, from the most sublime virtue or good habit, the deepest interpersonal affection, to the simplest pleasure.[1][2] An example of this range of meanings is that the love of a mother differs from the love of a spouse, which differs from the love for food. Most commonly, love refers to a feeling of a strong attraction and emotional attachment.[3][4][5]

Love is considered to be both positive and negative, with its virtue representing human kindness, compassion, and affection, as "the unselfish loyal and benevolent concern for the good of another" and its vice representing human moral flaw, akin to vanity, selfishness, amour-propre, and egotism, as potentially leading people into a type of mania, obsessiveness or codependency.[6][7] It may also describe compassionate and affectionate actions towards other humans, one's self, or animals.[8] In its various forms, love acts as a major facilitator of interpersonal relationships and, owing to its central psychological importance, is one of the most common themes in the creative arts.[9] Love has been postulated to be a function that keeps human beings together against menaces and to facilitate the continuation of the species.[10]

Ancient Greek philosophers identified six forms of love: essentially, familial love (in Greek, Storge), friendly love or platonic love (Philia), romantic love (Eros), self-love (Philautia), guest love (Xenia), and divine or unconditional love (Agape). Modern authors have distinguished further varieties of love: unrequited love, empty love, companionate love, consummate love, infatuated love, self-love, and courtly love. Numerous cultures have also distinguished Ren, Yuanfen, Mamihlapinatapai, Cafuné, Kama, Bhakti, Mettā, Ishq, Chesed, Amore, Charity, Saudade (and other variants or symbioses of these states), as culturally unique words, definitions, or expressions of love in regards to a specified "moments" currently lacking in the English language.[11][12][13]

Scientific research on emotion has increased significantly over the past two decades. The color wheel theory of love defines three primary, three secondary and nine tertiary love styles, describing them in terms of the traditional color wheel. The triangular theory of love suggests "intimacy, passion and commitment" are core components of love. Love has additional religious or spiritual meaning. This diversity of uses and meanings combined with the complexity of the feelings involved makes love unusually difficult to consistently define, compared to other emotional states.

Definitions

Romeo and Juliet, depicted as they part on the balcony in Act III, 1867 by Ford Madox Brown
The word "love" can have a variety of related but distinct meanings in different contexts. Many other languages use multiple words to express some of the different concepts that in English are denoted as "love"; one example is the plurality of Greek concepts for "love" (agape, eros, philia, storge) .[14] Cultural differences in conceptualizing love thus doubly impede the establishment of a universal definition.[15]

Although the nature or essence of love is a subject of frequent debate, different aspects of the word can be clarified by determining what isn't love (antonyms of "love"). Love as a general expression of positive sentiment (a stronger form of like) is commonly contrasted with hate (or neutral apathy). As a less-sexual and more-emotionally intimate form of romantic attachment, love is commonly contrasted with lust. As an interpersonal relationship with romantic overtones, love is sometimes contrasted with friendship, although the word love is often applied to close friendships or platonic love. (Further possible ambiguities come with usages "girlfriend", "boyfriend", "just good friends").


Fraternal love (Prehispanic sculpture from 250 to 900 AD, of Huastec origin). Museum of Anthropology in Xalapa, Veracruz, Mexico
Abstractly discussed, love usually refers to an experience one person feels for another. Love often involves caring for, or identifying with, a person or thing (cf. vulnerability and care theory of love), including oneself (cf. narcissism). In addition to cross-cultural differences in understanding love, ideas about love have also changed greatly over time. Some historians date modern conceptions of romantic love to courtly Europe during or after the Middle Ages, although the prior existence of romantic attachments is attested by ancient love poetry.[16]

The complex and abstract nature of love often reduces discourse of love to a thought-terminating cliché. Several common proverbs regard love, from Virgil's "Love conquers all" to The Beatles' "All You Need Is Love". St. Thomas Aquinas, following Aristotle, defines love as "to will the good of another."[17] Bertrand Russell describes love as a condition of "absolute value," as opposed to relative value.[citation needed] Philosopher Gottfried Leibniz said that love is "to be delighted by the happiness of another."[18] Meher Baba stated that in love there is a "feeling of unity" and an "active appreciation of the intrinsic worth of the object of love."[19] Biologist Jeremy Griffith defines love as "unconditional selflessness".[20]

Impersonal
People can be said to love an object, principle, or goal to which they are deeply committed and greatly value. For example, compassionate outreach and volunteer workers' "love" of their cause may sometimes be born not of interpersonal love but impersonal love, altruism, and strong spiritual or political convictions.[21] People can also "love" material objects, animals, or activities if they invest themselves in bonding or otherwise identifying with those things. If sexual passion is also involved, then this feeling is called paraphilia.[22]

Interpersonal
People together.svg
Relationships
(Outline)
Types
Activities
Endings
Emotions and feelings
AffinityAttachmentIntimacyJealousyLimerenceLove PlatonicUnconditionalPassionSexuality
Practices
Abuse
vte
Interpersonal love refers to love between human beings. It is a much more potent sentiment than a simple liking for a person. Unrequited love refers to those feelings of love that are not reciprocated. Interpersonal love is most closely associated with Interpersonal relationships.[21] Such love might exist between family members, friends, and couples. There are also a number of psychological disorders related to love, such as erotomania. Throughout history, philosophy and religion have done the most speculation on the phenomenon of love. In the 20th century, the science of psychology has written a great deal on the subject. In recent years, the sciences of psychology, anthropology, neuroscience, and biology have added to the understanding of the concept of love.

Biological basis
Main article: Biological basis of love
Biological models of sex tend to view love as a mammalian drive, much like hunger or thirst.[23] Helen Fisher, an anthropologist and human behavior researcher, divides the experience of love into three partly overlapping stages: lust, attraction, and attachment. Lust is the feeling of sexual desire; romantic attraction determines what partners mates find attractive and pursue, conserving time and energy by choosing; and attachment involves sharing a home, parental duties, mutual defense, and in humans involves feelings of safety and security.[24] Three distinct neural circuitries, including neurotransmitters, and three behavioral patterns, are associated with these three romantic styles.[24]


Pair of Lovers. 1480–1485
Lust is the initial passionate sexual desire that promotes mating, and involves the increased release of chemicals such as testosterone and estrogen. These effects rarely last more than a few weeks or months. Attraction is the more individualized and romantic desire for a specific candidate for mating, which develops out of lust as commitment to an individual mate forms. Recent studies in neuroscience have indicated that as people fall in love, the brain consistently releases a certain set of chemicals, including the neurotransmitter hormones, dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin, the same compounds released by amphetamine, stimulating the brain's pleasure center and leading to side effects such as increased heart rate, loss of appetite and sleep, and an intense feeling of excitement. Research has indicated that this stage generally lasts from one and a half to three years.[25]

Since the lust and attraction stages are both considered temporary, a third stage is needed to account for long-term relationships. Attachment is the bonding that promotes relationships lasting for many years and even decades. Attachment is generally based on commitments such as marriage and children, or mutual friendship based on things like shared interests. It has been linked to higher levels of the chemicals oxytocin and vasopressin to a greater degree than short-term relationships have.[25] Enzo Emanuele and coworkers reported the protein molecule known as the nerve growth factor (NGF) has high levels when people first fall in love, but these return to previous levels after one year.[26]

Psychological basis
Further information: Human bonding

Grandmother and grandchild in Sri Lanka
Psychology depicts love as a cognitive and social phenomenon. Psychologist Robert Sternberg formulated a triangular theory of love and argued that love has three different components: intimacy, commitment, and passion. Intimacy is a form in which two people share confidences and various details of their personal lives, and is usually shown in friendships and romantic love affairs. Commitment, on the other hand, is the expectation that the relationship is permanent. The last form of love is sexual attraction and passion. Passionate love is shown in infatuation as well as romantic love. All forms of love are viewed as varying combinations of these three components. Non-love does not include any of these components. Liking only includes intimacy. Infatuated love only includes passion. Empty love only includes commitment. Romantic love includes both intimacy and passion. Companionate love includes intimacy and commitment. Fatuous love includes passion and commitment. Lastly, consummate love includes all three components.[27] American psychologist Zick Rubin sought to define love by psychometrics in the 1970s. His work states that three factors constitute love: attachment, caring, and intimacy.[28][29]

Following developments in electrical theories such as Coulomb's law, which showed that positive and negative charges attract, analogs in human life were developed, such as "opposites attract". Over the last century, research on the nature of human mating has generally found this not to be true when it comes to character and personality—people tend to like people similar to themselves. However, in a few unusual and specific domains, such as immune systems, it seems that humans prefer others who are unlike themselves (e.g., with an orthogonal immune system), since this will lead to a baby that has the best of both worlds.[30] In recent years, various human bonding theories have been developed, described in terms of attachments, ties, bonds, and affinities. Some Western authorities disaggregate into two main components, the altruistic and the narcissistic. This view is represented in the works of Scott Peck, whose work in the field of applied psychology explored the definitions of love and evil. Peck maintains that love is a combination of the "concern for the spiritual growth of another," and simple narcissism.[31] In combination, love is an activity, not simply a feeling.

Psychologist Erich Fromm maintained in his book The Art of Loving that love is not merely a feeling but is also actions, and that in fact, the "feeling" of love is superficial in comparison to one's commitment to love via a series of loving actions over time.[21] In this sense, Fromm held that love is ultimately not a feeling at all, but rather is a commitment to, and adherence to, loving actions towards another, oneself, or many others, over a sustained duration.[21] Fromm also described love as a conscious choice that in its early stages might originate as an involuntary feeling, but which then later no longer depends on those feelings, but rather depends only on conscious commitment.[21]

Evolutionary basis

Wall of Love on Montmartre in Paris: "I love you" in 250 languages, by calligraphist Fédéric Baron and artist Claire Kito (2000)
Evolutionary psychology has attempted to provide various reasons for love as a survival tool. Humans are dependent on parental help for a large portion of their lifespans compared to other mammals. Love has therefore been seen as a mechanism to promote parental support of children for this extended time period. Furthermore, researchers as early as Charles Darwin himself identified unique features of human love compared to other mammals and credit love as a major factor for creating social support systems that enabled the development and expansion of the human species.[citation needed] Another factor may be that sexually transmitted diseases can cause, among other effects, permanently reduced fertility, injury to the fetus, and increase complications during childbirth. This would favor monogamous relationships over polygamy.[32]

Adaptive benefit
Interpersonal love between a male and a female is considered to provide an evolutionary adaptive benefit since it facilitates mating and sexual reproduction.[33] However, some organisms can reproduce asexually without mating. Thus understanding the adaptive benefit of interpersonal love depends on understanding the adaptive benefit of sexual reproduction as opposed to asexual reproduction. Michod[33] has reviewed evidence that love, and consequently sexual reproduction, provides two major adaptive advantages. First, love leading to sexual reproduction facilitates repair of damages in the DNA that is passed from parent to progeny (during meiosis, a key stage of the sexual process). Second, a gene in either parent may contain a harmful mutation, but in the progeny produced by sex reproduction, expression of a harmful mutation introduced by one parent is likely to be masked by expression of the unaffected homologous gene from the other parent.[33]

Comparison of scientific models
Biological models of love tend to see it as a mammalian drive, similar to hunger or thirst.[23] Psychology sees love as more of a social and cultural phenomenon. Certainly, love is influenced by hormones (such as oxytocin), neurotrophins (such as NGF), and pheromones, and how people think and behave in love is influenced by their conceptions of love. The conventional view in biology is that there are two major drives in love: sexual attraction and attachment. Attachment between adults is presumed to work on the same principles that lead an infant to become attached to its mother. The traditional psychological view sees love as being a combination of companionate love and passionate love. Passionate love is intense longing, and is often accompanied by physiological arousal (shortness of breath, rapid heart rate); companionate love is affection and a feeling of intimacy not accompanied by physiological arousal.

Cultural views
Ancient Greek
See also: Greek words for love

Roman copy of a Greek sculpture by Lysippus depicting Eros, the Greek personification of romantic love
Greek distinguishes several different senses in which the word "love" is used. Ancient Greeks identified four forms of love: kinship or familiarity (in Greek, storge), friendship and/or platonic desire (philia), sexual and/or romantic desire (eros), and self-emptying or divine love (agape).[34][35] Modern authors have distinguished further varieties of romantic love.[36] However, with Greek (as with many other languages), it has been historically difficult to separate the meanings of these words totally. At the same time, the Ancient Greek text of the Bible has examples of the verb agapo having the same meaning as phileo.

Agape (ἀγάπη agápē) means love in modern-day Greek. The term s'agapo means I love you in Greek. The word agapo is the verb I love. It generally refers to a "pure," ideal type of love, rather than the physical attraction suggested by eros. However, there are some examples of agape used to mean the same as eros. It has also been translated as "love of the soul."[37]

Eros (ἔρως érōs) (from the Greek deity Eros) is passionate love, with sensual desire and longing. The Greek word erota means in love. Plato refined his own definition. Although eros is initially felt for a person, with contemplation it becomes an appreciation of the beauty within that person, or even becomes appreciation of beauty itself. Eros helps the soul recall knowledge of beauty and contributes to an understanding of spiritual truth. Lovers and philosophers are all inspired to seek truth by eros. Some translations list it as "love of the body".[37]

Philia (φιλία philía), a dispassionate virtuous love, was a concept addressed and developed by Aristotle in his Nicomachean Ethics Book VIII.[38] It includes loyalty to friends, family, and community, and requires virtue, equality, and familiarity. Philia is motivated by practical reasons; one or both of the parties benefit from the relationship. It can also mean "love of the mind."

Storge (στοργή storgē) is natural affection, like that felt by parents for offspring.

Xenia (ξενία xenía), hospitality, was an extremely important practice in ancient Greece. It was an almost ritualized friendship formed between a host and his guest, who could previously have been strangers. The host fed and provided quarters for the guest, who was expected to repay only with gratitude. The importance of this can be seen throughout Greek mythology—in particular, Homer's Iliad and Odyssey.

Ancient Roman (Latin)
The Latin language has several different verbs corresponding to the English word "love." amō is the basic verb meaning I love, with the infinitive amare ("to love") as it still is in Italian today. The Romans used it both in an affectionate sense as well as in a romantic or sexual sense. From this verb come amans—a lover, amator, "professional lover," often with the accessory notion of lechery—and amica, "girlfriend" in the English sense, often being applied euphemistically to a prostitute. The corresponding noun is amor (the significance of this term for the Romans is well illustrated in the fact, that the name of the city, Rome—in Latin: Roma—can be viewed as an anagram for amor, which was used as the secret name of the City in wide circles in ancient times),[39] which is also used in the plural form to indicate love affairs or sexual adventures. This same root also produces amicus—"friend"—and amicitia, "friendship" (often based to mutual advantage, and corresponding sometimes more closely to "indebtedness" or "influence"). Cicero wrote a treatise called On Friendship (de Amicitia), which discusses the notion at some length. Ovid wrote a guide to dating called Ars Amatoria (The Art of Love), which addresses, in depth, everything from extramarital affairs to overprotective parents.

Latin sometimes uses amāre where English would simply say to like. This notion, however, is much more generally expressed in Latin by the terms placere or delectāre, which are used more colloquially, the latter used frequently in the love poetry of Catullus. Diligere often has the notion "to be affectionate for," "to esteem," and rarely if ever is used for romantic love. This word would be appropriate to describe the friendship of two men. The corresponding noun diligentia, however, has the meaning of "diligence" or "carefulness," and has little semantic overlap with the verb. Observare is a synonym for diligere; despite the cognate with English, this verb and its corresponding noun, observantia, often denote "esteem" or "affection." Caritas is used in Latin translations of the Christian Bible to mean "charitable love"; this meaning, however, is not found in Classical pagan Roman literature. As it arises from a conflation with a Greek word, there is no corresponding verb.

Chinese and other Sinic

愛 (Mandarin: ài), the traditional Chinese character for love contains a heart (心) in the middle.
Two philosophical underpinnings of love exist in the Chinese tradition, one from Confucianism which emphasized actions and duty while the other came from Mohism which championed a universal love. A core concept to Confucianism is 仁 (Ren, "benevolent love"), which focuses on duty, action, and attitude in a relationship rather than love itself. In Confucianism, one displays benevolent love by performing actions such as filial piety from children, kindness from parents, loyalty to the king and so forth.

The concept of 愛 (Mandarin: ài) was developed by the Chinese philosopher Mozi in the 4th century BC in reaction to Confucianism's benevolent love. Mozi tried to replace what he considered to be the long-entrenched Chinese over-attachment to family and clan structures with the concept of "universal love" (兼愛, jiān'ài). In this, he argued directly against Confucians who believed that it was natural and correct for people to care about different people in different degrees. Mozi, by contrast, believed people in principle should care for all people equally. Mohism stressed that rather than adopting different attitudes towards different people, love should be unconditional and offered to everyone without regard to reciprocation; not just to friends, family and other Confucian relations. Later in Chinese Buddhism, the term Ai (愛) was adopted to refer to a passionate, caring love and was considered a fundamental desire. In Buddhism, Ai was seen as capable of being either selfish or selfless, the latter being a key element towards enlightenment.

In Mandarin Chinese, 愛 (ài) is often used as the equivalent of the Western concept of love. 愛 (ài) is used as both a verb (e.g. 我愛你, Wǒ ài nǐ, or "I love you") and a noun (such as 愛情 àiqíng, or "romantic love"). However, due to the influence of Confucian 仁 (rén), the phrase 我愛你 (Wǒ ài nǐ, I love you) carries with it a very specific sense of responsibility, commitment and loyalty. Instead of frequently saying "I love you" as in some Western societies, the Chinese are more likely to express feelings of affection in a more casual way. Consequently, "I like you" (我喜欢你, Wǒ xǐhuan nǐ) is a more common way of expressing affection in Mandarin; it is more playful and less serious.[40] This is also true in Japanese (suki da, 好きだ).

Japanese
The Japanese language uses three words to convey the English equivalent of "love". Because "love" covers a wide range of emotions and behavioral phenomena, there are nuances distinguishing the three terms.[41][42] The term ai (愛), which is often associated with maternal love[41] or selfless love,[42] originally referred to beauty and was often used in a religious context. Following the Meiji Restoration 1868, the term became associated with "love" in order to translate Western literature. Prior to Western influence, the term koi (恋 or 孤悲) generally represented romantic love, and was often the subject of the popular Man'yōshū Japanese poetry collection.[41] Koi describes a longing for a member of the opposite sex and is typically interpreted as selfish and wanting.[42] The term's origins come from the concept of lonely solitude as a result of separation from a loved one. Though modern usage of koi focuses on sexual love and infatuation, the Manyō used the term to cover a wider range of situations, including tenderness, benevolence, and material desire.[41] The third term, ren'ai (恋愛), is a more modern construction that combines the kanji characters for both ai and koi, though its usage more closely resembles that of koi in the form of romantic love.[41][42] Amae (甘え), referring to the desire to be loved and cared for by an authority figure, is another important aspect of Japan's cultural perspective on love, and has been analysed in detail in Takeo Doi's The Anatomy of Dependence[43]

Indian

The love stories of the Hindu deities Krishna and Radha have influenced the Indian culture and arts. Above: Radha Madhavam by Raja Ravi Varma.
In contemporary literature, the Sanskrit words for love is "sneha". Other terms such as Priya refers to innocent love, Prema refers to spiritual love, and Kama refers usually to sexual desire.[44][45] However, the term also refers to any sensory enjoyment, emotional attraction and aesthetic pleasure such as from arts, dance, music, painting, sculpture and nature.[46][47]

The concept of kama is found in some of the earliest known verses in Vedas. For example, Book 10 of Rig Veda describes the creation of the universe from nothing by the great heat. There in hymn 129, it states:

कामस्तदग्रे समवर्तताधि मनसो रेतः परथमं यदासीत |
सतो बन्धुमसति निरविन्दन हर्दि परतीष्याकवयो मनीषा ||[48]

Thereafter rose Desire in the beginning, Desire the primal seed and germ of Spirit,
Sages who searched with their heart's thought discovered the existent's kinship in the non-existent.

— Rig Veda, ~ 15th century BC[49]
Persian
The children of Adam are limbs of one body
Having been created of one essence.
When the calamity of time afflicts one limb
The other limbs cannot remain at rest.
If you have no sympathy for the troubles of others
You are not worthy to be called by the name of "man".

Sa'di, Gulistan   
Rumi, Hafiz, and Sa'di are icons of the passion and love that the Persian culture and language present.[citation needed] The Persian word for love is Ishq, which is derived from Arabic language; however, it is considered by most to be too stalwart a term for interpersonal love and is more commonly substituted for "doost dashtan" ("liking").[citation needed] In the Persian culture, everything is encompassed by love and all is for love, starting from loving friends and family, husbands and wives, and eventually reaching the divine love that is the ultimate goal in life.[citation needed]

Religious views
Main article: Religious views on love
Abrahamic

Robert Indiana's 1977 Love sculpture spelling ahava
Judaism
See also: Jewish views on love
In Hebrew, אהבה (ahava) is the most commonly used term for both interpersonal love and love between God and God's creations. Chesed, often translated as loving-kindness, is used to describe many forms of love between human beings.

The commandment to love other people is given in the Torah, which states, "Love your neighbor like yourself" (Leviticus 19:18). The Torah's commandment to love God "with all your heart, with all your soul and with all your might" (Deuteronomy 6:5) is taken by the Mishnah (a central text of the Jewish oral law) to refer to good deeds, willingness to sacrifice one's life rather than commit certain serious transgressions, willingness to sacrifice all of one's possessions, and being grateful to the Lord despite adversity (tractate Berachoth 9:5). Rabbinic literature differs as to how this love can be developed, e.g., by contemplating divine deeds or witnessing the marvels of nature.

As for love between marital partners, this is deemed an essential ingredient to life: "See life with the wife you love" (Ecclesiastes 9:9). Rabbi David Wolpe writes that "...love is not only about the feelings of the lover...It is when one person believes in another person and shows it." He further states that "...love...is a feeling that expresses itself in action. What we really feel is reflected in what we do."[50] The biblical book Song of Solomon is considered a romantically phrased metaphor of love between God and his people, but in its plain reading, reads like a love song. The 20th-century rabbi Eliyahu Eliezer Dessler is frequently quoted as defining love from the Jewish point of view as "giving without expecting to take" (from his Michtav me-Eliyahu, Vol. 1).

Christianity

Love and not a one-way street in romanticism
The Christian understanding is that love comes from God, who is himself love (1 John 4:8). The love of man and woman—eros in Greek—and the unselfish love of others (agape), are often contrasted as "descending" and "ascending" love, respectively, but are ultimately the same thing.[51]

There are several Greek words for "love" that are regularly referred to in Christian circles.

Agape: In the New Testament, agapē is charitable, selfless, altruistic, and unconditional. It is parental love, seen as creating goodness in the world; it is the way God is seen to love humanity, and it is seen as the kind of love that Christians aspire to have for one another.[37]
Phileo: Also used in the New Testament, phileo is a human response to something that is found to be delightful. Also known as "brotherly love."
Two other words for love in the Greek language, eros (sexual love) and storge (child-to-parent love), were never used in the New Testament.[37]
Christians believe that to Love God with all your heart, mind, and strength and Love your neighbor as yourself are the two most important things in life (the greatest commandment of the Jewish Torah, according to Jesus; cf. Gospel of Mark chapter 12, verses 28–34). Saint Augustine summarized this when he wrote "Love God, and do as thou wilt."

The Apostle Paul glorified love as the most important virtue of all. Describing love in the famous poetic interpretation in 1 Corinthians, he wrote, "Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, and always perseveres."[52]

The Apostle John wrote, "For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him." (John 3:16–17, NIV) John also wrote, "Dear friends, let us love one another for love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love."[53]

Saint Augustine wrote that one must be able to decipher the difference between love and lust. Lust, according to Saint Augustine, is an overindulgence, but to love and be loved is what he has sought for his entire life. He even says, "I was in love with love." Finally, he does fall in love and is loved back, by God. Saint Augustine says the only one who can love you truly and fully is God, because love with a human only allows for flaws such as "jealousy, suspicion, fear, anger, and contention." According to Saint Augustine, to love God is "to attain the peace which is yours." (Saint Augustine's Confessions)

Augustine regards the duplex commandment of love in Matthew 22 as the heart of Christian faith and the interpretation of the Bible. After the review of Christian doctrine, Augustine treats the problem of love in terms of use and enjoyment until the end of Book I of De Doctrina Christiana (1.22.21–1.40.44;).[54]

Christian theologians see God as the source of love, which is mirrored in humans and their own loving relationships. Influential Christian theologian C. S. Lewis wrote a book called The Four Loves. Benedict XVI named his first encyclical God is love. He said that a human being, created in the image of God, who is love, is able to practice love; to give himself to God and others (agape) and by receiving and experiencing God's love in contemplation (eros). This life of love, according to him, is the life of the saints such as Teresa of Calcutta and Mary, the mother of Jesus and is the direction Christians take when they believe that God loves them.[51]

Pope Francis taught that "True love is both loving and letting oneself be loved...what is important in love is not our loving, but allowing ourselves to be loved by God."[55] And so, in the analysis of a Catholic theologian, for Pope Francis, "the key to love...is not our activity. It is the activity of the greatest, and the source, of all the powers in the universe: God's."[56]

In Christianity the practical definition of love is summarised by Thomas Aquinas, who defined love as "to will the good of another," or to desire for another to succeed.[17] This is an explanation of the Christian need to love others, including their enemies. As Thomas Aquinas explains, Christian love is motivated by the need to see others succeed in life, to be good people.

Regarding love for enemies, Jesus is quoted in the Gospel of Matthew:

"You have heard that it was said, 'Love your neighbor and hate your enemy.' But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, that you may be children of your Father in heaven. He causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. If you love those who love you, what reward will you get? Are not even the tax collectors doing that? And if you greet only your own people, what are you doing more than others? Do not even pagans do that? Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect."[57]

Do not forget to love with forgiveness, Christ saved an adulterous woman from those who would stone her. A world of wronged hypocrites needs forgiving love. Mosaic Law would hold Deuteronomy 22:22-24 "If a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, then both of them shall die—the man that lay with the woman, and the woman; so you shall put away the evil from Israel. If a young woman who is a virgin is betrothed to a husband, and a man finds her in the city and lies with her, then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with stones, the young woman because she did not cry out in the city, and the man because he humbled his neighbor's wife; so you shall put away the evil from among you."

Tertullian wrote regarding love for enemies: "Our individual, extraordinary, and perfect goodness consists in loving our enemies. To love one's friends is common practice, to love one's enemies only among Christians."[58]

Islam
Al-Wadūd or The Loving is a name of God in Islam.
In Islam, one of the 99 names of God is Al-Wadūd, which means "The Loving"
Love encompasses the Islamic view of life as universal brotherhood that applies to all who hold faith. Amongst the 99 names of God (Allah), there is the name Al-Wadud, or "the Loving One," which is found in Surah [ 11:90] as well as Surah [ 85:14]. God is also referenced at the beginning of every chapter in the Qur'an as Ar-Rahman and Ar-Rahim, or the "Most Compassionate" and the "Most Merciful", indicating that nobody is more loving, compassionate and benevolent than God. The Qur'an refers to God as being "full of loving kindness."

The Qur'an exhorts Muslim believers to treat all people, those who have not persecuted them, with birr or "deep kindness" as stated in Surah [ 6:8-9]. Birr is also used by the Qur'an in describing the love and kindness that children must show to their parents.

Ishq, or divine love, is the emphasis of Sufism in the Islamic tradition. Practitioners of Sufism believe that love is a projection of the essence of God to the universe. God desires to recognize beauty, and as if one looks at a mirror to see oneself, God "looks" at himself within the dynamics of nature. Since everything is a reflection of God, the school of Sufism practices seeing the beauty inside the apparently ugly. Sufism is often referred to as the religion of love.[59] God in Sufism is referred to in three main terms, which are the Lover, Loved, and Beloved, with the last of these terms being often seen in Sufi poetry. A common viewpoint of Sufism is that through love, humankind can get back to its inherent purity and grace. The saints of Sufism are infamous for being "drunk" due to their love of God; hence, the constant reference to wine in Sufi poetry and music.

Bahá'í Faith
In his Paris Talks, `Abdu'l-Bahá described four types of love: the love that flows from God to human beings; the love that flows from human beings to God; the love of God towards the Self or Identity of God; and the love of human beings for human beings.[60]
"BOY: All right, everyone!
This... is a stick-up!"
Don't anybody move!
Now, empty that safe!
"Ooh-hoo-hoo!
Money, money, money! (KISSING)"
"Stop it! Stop it,
you mean, old potato!"
"Quiet, Bo Peep,
or your sheep get run over!"
"Help! Baa!
Help us!"
"Oh, no, not my sheep!
Somebody do something!"
VOICE BOX: Reach for the sky!
Oh, no! Sheriff Woody!
"I'm here to stop you,
One-Eyed Bart."
"Doh!
How'd you know it was me?"
Are you gonna come quietly?
You can't touch me, Sheriff!
"I brought my attack dog
with the built-in force field."
"Well, I brought my dinosaur
who eats force-field dogs."
"-(GROWLING)
-Yipe, yipe, yipe, yipe!"
You're going to jail, Bart!
"Say goodbye to the wife
and Tater Tots."
(GIGGLING EXCITEDLY)
(LAUGHING)
"(BABY SQUEALING,
LAUGHING, COOING)"
You saved the day again, Woody.
"VOlCE BOX: You're my
favorite deputy."
♪ You've got a friend in me
♪ You've got a friend in me
"Come on,
let's wrangle up the cattle."
"♪ When the road looks
rough ahead"
"♪ And you're miles and miles
from your nice, warm bed"
Round 'em up, cowboy!
"♪ Just remember
what your old pal said"
"♪ Boy, you've got
a friend in me"
Yee-haw!
♪ Yeah, you've got a friend in me
Hey, cowboy!
"♪ Some other folks might be
a little bit smarter than l am"
(WHINNYING)
♪ Big and stronger too
Come on, Woody.
♪ Maybe
"♪ But none of them will ever
love you the way l do"
"-♪ lt's me and you, boy
-(LAUGHS)"
♪ And as the years go by
Whoa! Whoa! (LAUGHING)
♪ Our friendship will never die
Whoo!
"♪ You're gonna see
lt's our destiny"
(LAUGHING)
♪ You've got a friend in me
All right!
♪ Yeah, you've got a friend in me
Score!
"-♪ You got a friend in me ♪
-Wow! Cool!"
"-MOM: What do you think?
-Oh, this looks great, Mom!"
Okay, birthday boy...
"We saw that at the store!
I asked you for it!"
"-I hope I have enough places.
-Wow, look at that! That's so..."
"-One, two... Four.
-Oh, my gosh, you got..."
"-Yeah, I think that's gonna be enough.
-Could we leave this up 'til we move?"
"-Well, sure! We can leave it up.
-Yeah!"
"Now go get Molly. Your friends
are gonna be here any minute."
Okay. It's party time, Woody.
"-Yee-haw!
-(RUNNING FOOTFALLS)"
(BABY SQUEALING)
Howdy, little lady.
(SQUEALING)
"VOlCE BOX: Somebody's
poisoned the water hole."
"-(COOING)
-Come on, Molly."
Oh, you're getting heavy.
"-(MOLLY COOING)
-See you later, Woody."
(DOOR CLOSES)
"Pull my string!
The birthday party's today?"
"Okay, everybody,
coast is clear!"
"-(SQUEAKS)
-Ages 3 and up. It's on my box."
"Ages 3 and up. I'm not supposed
to be baby-sitting Princess Drool."
(TIRES SQUEAL, MOTOR REVS)
"-(LITTLE TIKES GIBBERING)
-(BELL DINGS, SIREN WAILING)"
"-(SIREN WAILING)
-Hey, Hamm."
"-Look, I'm Picasso!
-I don't get it."
"You uncultured swine! What're
you lookin' at, ya hockey puck?"
(SQUEAKS)
(LITTLE TIKES GIBBERING)
"-Hey, Sarge, have you seen Slinky?
-Sir! No, sir!"
Okay. Hey, thank you. At ease.
"-(SIREN WAILING)
-Hey, uh, Slinky?"
"Right here, Woody.
I'm red this time."
"-No. S-Slink...
-Oh, well, all right."
You can be red if you want.
Not now, Slink. I got some bad news.
(SHOUTS) Bad news?
Shh, shh, shh!
"Just gather everyone up
for a staff meeting, and be happy."
Got it.
"-Be happy!
-Ha, ha, ha, ha!"
"Staff meeting, everybody!
Snake, Robot, podium duty."
(SIREN WAILING)
Hey. (JABBERS)
Hey, Etch. Draw!
"-(DING)
-Oh! Got me again."
"Etch, you've been working on that draw.
Fastest knobs in the West."
"Got a staff meeting, you guys.
Come on, let's go."
Now, where is that... Oh.
"Hey, who moved my doodle pad
way over here?"
(ROARING)
"-How're you doin', Rex?
-Were you scared? Tell me honestly."
"I was close to being scared
that time."
"I'm going for fearsome here,
but I just don't feel it."
"I think I'm just
coming off as annoying."
"(COUGHS)
Ow! Oh, hi, Bo. Hi."
"I wanted to thank you, Woody,
for saving my flock."
Oh, hey, it was, uh, nothin'.
"What do you say I get someone else
to watch the sheep tonight?"
"(SHEEPISH GIGGLE)
Oh, yeah! (MUTTERS)"
"Remember, I'm just
a couple of blocks away."
"-Yodel-ay-hee-hoo!
-Come on, come on."
Smaller toys up front.
SLINKY: Hey, Woody, come on.
"(TOYS TITTERING,
BUZZING, DINGING)"
"-(SHEEP BLEATING)
-Ahem!"
"-(SQUEAKS)
-Oh, thanks, Mike."
"-(LOUD FEEDBACK)
-Okay... Whoa, whoa. Step back."
"-HAMM: For crying out loud.
-Thank you."
(AMPLlFlED BLOWlNG)
"Hello? Check.
That better? Great."
"Everybody hear me? Up on the shelf,
can you hear me? Great."
Okay. First item today...
"Uh... oh, yeah.
Has everyone picked a moving buddy?"
"-REX: What?
-Moving buddy? You can't be serious."
"I didn't know we were
supposed to have one already."
"-Do we have to hold hands?
-(TOYS GIBBERING)"
You guys think this is a big joke.
"We've only got one week
left before the move."
"l don't want any toys left behind.
A moving buddy."
lf you don't have one, get one!
"All right, next.
Uh, oh, yes."
"Tuesday night's plastic corrosion
awareness meeting"
was, l think, a big success.
"And we wanna thank Mr. Spell
for putting that on for us."
Thank you, Mr. Spell.
ELECTRONlC VOlCE: You're welcome.
"Okay. Uh, oh, yes.
One, uh, minor note here."
"(QUlETLY) Andy's birthday party
has been moved to today."
"-Wait a minute here!
-(TOYS COMPLAINING)"
"What do you mean the party's today?
His birthday's not 'til next week!"
"What's goin' on down there?
Is his mom losin' her marbles?"
"Well, obviously she wanted to
have the party before the move."
"l'm not worried.
You shouldn't be worried."
"Of course Woody ain't worried. He's
been Andy's favorite since kindergarten."
"Hey, hey.
Come on, Potato Head."
"If Woody says it's all right, then,
well, darn it, it's good enough for me."
"Woody has never
steered us wrong before."
"Come on, guys. Every Christmas
and birthday we go through this."
"But what ifAndy gets
another dinosaur, a mean one?"
"I just don't think I could take
that kind of rejection!"
"Hey, listen,
no one's getting replaced."
"This is Andy
we're talking about."
"lt doesn't matter
how much we're played with."
(CHlRPlNG)
"What matters is that we're here
for Andy when he needs us."
That's what we're made for, right?
"Pardon me. I hate to break up the staff
meeting, but... they're here!"
Birthday guests at three o'clock!
"-Stay calm, everyone!
-(AGITATED GIBBERING)"
Hey!
"-Uh, meeting adjourned.
-(CREAKING)"
"Ho, boy! Will you take a look
at all those presents?"
I can't see a thing.
"Yes, sir, we're next month's
garage sale fodder for sure."
"-Any dinosaur-shaped ones?
-Oh, for crying out loud."
"-They're all in boxes, you idiot.
-REX: They're getting bigger."
"Wait, there's a nice
little one over there."
CHILD: Hi!
(SCREAMING)
"MR. SPELL: Spell, trash can.
REX: We're doomed!"
All right! All right!
"If I send out the troops,
will you all calm down?"
"-Yes! Yes! We promise!
-Okay! Save your batteries."
"Very good, Woody.
That's using the old noodle."
"Sergeant, establish
a recon post downstairs. Code Red!"
"-You know what to do.
-Yes, sir!"
"All right, men.
You heard him. Code Red!"
"Repeat, we are at Code Red.
Recon plan Charlie. Execute!"
"Let's move!
Move, move, move, move!"
(DOOR CREAKING)
(CHILDREN SHOUTING)
"-(CHILD CHATTERING)
-CHILDREN: Yeah!"
"(CHATTERING,
SHOUTING CONTINUE)"
MOM: Okay, come on, kids.
"Everyone in the living room.
It's almost time for the presents."
"(KIDS SHOUTING,
CHATTERING EXCITEDLY)"
"(SHOUTING,
CHATTERING CONTINUE)"
"HAMM:
All right, gangway, gangway."
And this is how we find out
"-what is in those presents.
-(ROBOT HUMMING)"
(KIDS CHATTERING, SHOUTING)
MOM: Okay, who's hungry?
Here come the chips!
"I've got Cool Ranch
and barbecue! Ow!"
What in the world... Oh!
"-I thought I told him to pick these up.
-(ICE CLINKING IN GLASSES)"
"Shouldn't they be there by now?
What's taking them so long?"
"Hey, these guys are professionals.
They're the best."
"Come on!
They're not lying down on the job."
(MOANING)
"G-G-Go on without me!
J-Just go!"
"A good soldier never
leaves a man behind."
(KIDS SHOUTING, CHATTERING)
"-MOM: Okay, everybody, come on.
-(BOYS SHOUTING)"
"Everybody settle down.
Now, kids. Everybody..."
"You sit in a circle. No, Andy.
Andy, you sit in the middle there."
"Good. And... Which present
are you gonna open first?"
(CHATTERING CONTINUES)
"CHILD: Mine!
SERGEANT: There they are."
"SOLDIER ON MONITOR: Come in,
Mother Bird. This is Alpha Bravo."
"-This is it! This is it! Quiet, quiet!
-Come in, Mother Bird."
"All right, Andy's opening
the first present now."
"Mrs. Potato Head! Mrs. Potato Head!
Mrs. Potato Head!"
Hey, I can dream, can't I?
"The bow's coming off.
He's ripping the wrapping paper."
"lt's a... lt's...
lt's a... a lunch box."
"-We've got a lunch box here.
-A lunch box?"
"-Lunch box?
-For lunch. (LAUGHING)"
"Okay, second present.
lt appears to be..."
"-Okay, it's bed sheets.
-Who invited that kid?"
(KIDS SHOUTING, CHATTERING)
Oh! Only one left.
"-Okay, we're on the last present now.
-Last present!"
lt's a big one. lt's a...
"-It's a board game! Repeat, Battleship!
-Whew!"
"-(ALL CHEERING)
-HAMM: Hallelujah!"
"-Yeah! All right!
-Hey, watch it!"
Sorry there, old spud head.
"Mission accomplished. Well done, men.
Pack it up. We're goin' home."
"So did I tell ya? Huh?
Nothin' to worry about."
"I knew you were right all along, Woody.
Never doubted ya for a second."
Wait a minute. Oh!
"-What do we have here?
-Wait! Turn that thing back on!"
"Come in, Mother Bird!
Come in, Mother Bird!"
"Mom has pulled a surprise
present from the closet."
"Andy's opening it.
He's really excited about this one."
"-Mom, what is it? (GASPS)
-SERGEANT: It's a huge package."
"Oh, get outta the... One of the kids
is in the way. I can't see."
"-It's a...
-KIDS TOGETHER: Wow!"
"-(STATlC)
-It's a what? What is it?"
"-(POTATO HEAD SCREAMS)
-Oh, no!"
Oh, ya big lizard!
"-Now we'll never know what it is!
-Way to go, Rex!"
"No, no! Turn 'em around!
Turn 'em around!"
"He's puttin' 'em in backwa...
Here, you're puttin' 'em in backwards!"
"Plus is positive, minus is negative!
Oh, let me! (GRUNTING)"
"-ANDY: Let's go to my room, guys!
-(BOYS SHOUTING)"
"Red alert! Red alert!
Andy is coming upstairs!"
"-(GRUNTS) There!
-SOLDlER: Juvenile intrusion!"
"Repeat, resume
your positions now!"
"Andy's coming! Everybody,
back to your places! Hurry!"
"HAMM: Get to your places!
Get to your places!"
(REX SCREAMING)
"Where's my ear? Who's seen my ear?
Did you see my ear?"
"Out of my way! Here I come!
Here I come! (GROANS)"
(BOYS SHOUTING)
(BOYS SHOUTING)
"ANDY: Hey, look,
its lasers light up. Take that, Zurg!"
"Quick, make a space.
This is where the spaceship lands."
"And he does it like that.
And he does a karate chop action!"
"MOM: Come on down, guys!
It's time for games!"
"-We've got prizes!
-(KIDS CHATTERING)"
"-What is it?
-Can you see it?"
"-What the heck is up there?
-Woody, who's up there with ya?"
"-(COUGHING)
-SLINKY: Woody?"
"-What are you doing under the bed?
-Uh, nothin'. Uh, nothin'."
"I'm sure Andy was just
a little excited, that's all."
"Too much cake and ice cream,
I suppose. It's just a mistake!"
"Well, that mistake is sitting
in your spot, Woody. (CHUCKLES)"
"-(GASPS) Have you been replaced?
-What did I tell you earlier?"
No one is getting replaced.
"Now, let's all be polite and give
whatever it is up there"
"a nice, big
Andy's-room welcome."
(GULPS)
(HEAVY BREATHING)
"-(BUZZES)
-Buzz Lightyear to Star Command."
Come in, Star Command.
"-(BUZZES)
-Star Command, come in."
Do you read me?
"Why don't they answer?
(GASPS) My ship!"
Blast! This'll take weeks to repair.
"Buzz Lightyear mission log,
stardate 4-0-7-2."
"My ship has run off course
en route to sector 1 2."
"I've crash-landed
on a strange planet."
"The impact must've awoken me
from hypersleep."
Terrain seems a bit unstable.
"No readout yet
if the air is breathable."
"And there seems to be no sign
of intelligent life anywhere."
"-Hello!
-(KARATE YELL)"
"(SCREAMS) Whoa! H-Hey!
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!"
"-Did I frighten you? Didn't mean to.
-(BUZZlNG)"
"-Sorry. Howdy. My name is Woody.
-(BUZZlNG CONTlNUES)"
"And this is Andy's room.
That's all I wanted to say."
"And also, there has been
a bit of a mix-up."
"This is my spot, see,
the bed here."
"Local law enforcement.
It's about time you got here."
"I'm Buzz Lightyear, Space Ranger,
Universe Protection Unit."
"My ship has crash-landed here
by mistake."
"Yes, it is a mistake because,
you see, the bed here is my spot."
"I need to repair
my turbo boosters."
"Do you people still use fossil fuel, or
have you discovered crystallic fusion?"
"-Well, let's see. We got double-A's.
-(GASPS)"
"Watch yourself!
Halt! Who goes there?"
"Don't shoot!
It's okay. Friends."
"-Do you know these life-forms?
-Yes! They're Andy's toys."
"All right, everyone,
you're clear to come up."
"I am Buzz Lightyear.
I come in peace."
"Oh, I'm so glad
you're not a dinosaur!"
Wh-why, thank you!
"Now, thank you all
for your kind welcome!"
"-Say, what's that button do?
-I'll show you."
"VOlCE BOX:
Buzz Lightyear to the rescue!"
TOYS: Oh!
"Hey, Woody's got something like that.
His is a pull string."
"-Only it's...
-Only it sounds like a car ran over it."
"HAMM: Oh, yeah, but not like this.
This is a quality sound system."
Probably all copper wiring, huh?
"So, uh, where you from?
Singapore? Hong Kong?"
"Well, no. Actually, I-I'm stationed up
in the Gamma Quadrant of Sector Four."
"As a member of the elite
Universe Protection Unit"
of the Space Ranger Corps,
"I protect the galaxy
from the threat of invasion"
"from the evil Emperor Zurg,
sworn enemy of the Galactic Alliance."
"Oh, really?
I'm from Playskool."
"And I'm from Mattel.
Well, I'm not really from Mattel."
"I'm actually from a smaller company that
was purchased in a leveraged buyout."
"You'd think they'd never seen
a new toy before."
Well, sure. Look at him.
"He's got more gadgets on him
than a Swiss Army knife."
"-(BUZZlNG)
-Ah, ah, ah, ah! Please be careful."
"You don't want to be in the way
when my laser goes off."
"Hey, a laser! How come
you don't have a laser, Woody?"
"It's not a laser! It's a...
It's a little light bulb that blinks."
"-What's with him?
-Laser envy."
All right, that's enough!
"Look, we're all very impressed
with Andy's new toy."
"-Toy?
-T-O-Y. Toy!"
"Excuse me, I think the word
you're searching for is "Space Ranger.""
"The word I'm searching for I can't say
because there's preschool toys present."
Gettin' kinda tense, aren't ya?
"Uh, Mr. Lightyear,
uh, now, I'm curious."
"What does a Space Ranger
actually do?"
He's not a Space Ranger!
"He doesn't fight evil
or, or shoot lasers or fly!"
Excuse me.
"-TOYS: Ooh!
-Oh, impressive wingspan! Very good!"
"Oh, what? What?
These are plastic. He can't fly!"
"They are a terillium-carbonic alloy,
and I can fly."
"-No, you can't.
-(SIGHS) Yes, I can."
"-You can't.
-Can."
Can't. Can't. Can't!
"I tell you, I could fly around
this room with my eyes closed!"
"-Okay, then, Mr. Light Beer, prove it.
-All right, then, I will."
Stand back, everyone!
(ELECTRONIC HUM)
To infinity and beyond!
(AIRPLANE WHIRRING)
"-Can!
-REX: Whoa!"
"-Oh, wow, you flew magnificently!
-(WHISTLING)"
I found my movin' buddy.
"Thank you. Th-Thank you all.
Thank you."
"That wasn't flying!
That was... falling with style."
"Man, the dolls must really
go for you. Can you teach me that?"
"-(LAUGHING) Golly bob howdy!
-Oh, shut up!"
You know, in a couple of days,
"everything will be just the way
it was. They'll see."
"-(ALL CHATTERING)
-WOODY: They'll see."
I'm still Andy's favorite toy.
"♪ l was on top of the world
livin' high"
♪ lt was right in my pocket
ANDY: (LAUGHING) Whoa!
♪ l was livin' the life
"♪ Things were just the way
they should be"
"♪ When from out of the sky
like a bomb"
"♪ Comes some little punk
in a rocket"
(LASER BUZZlNG)
"♪ Now all of a sudden some
strange things are happening to me"
Buzz Lightyear to the rescue!
♪ Strange
♪ Things are happening to me
♪ Strange
♪ Things
"♪ Strange things
are happening to me"
(LOUD ROAR)
♪ Ain't no doubt about it
"♪ l had friends
l had lots of friends"
♪ Now all my friends are gone
♪ And l'm doin' the best l can
♪ To carry on
"-♪ l had power
-CHORUS: ♪ Power"
"-♪ l was respected
-♪ Respected"
♪ But not any more
♪ And l've lost the love of the one
♪ Whom l adore
"♪ Let me tell you 'bout it
Strange"
♪ Things are happenin' to me
(SLINKY GRUNTS)
♪ Strange
♪ Things
♪ Strange
♪ Things are happenin' to me
♪ Ain't no doubt about it
♪ Strange
♪ Things
♪ Strange
♪ Things ♪
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(GRUNTS) Finally!
(SIGHS) Hey, who's got my hat?
"(SQUEAKS) Look, I'm Woody!
Howdy, howdy, howdy!"
"Ah-ha! Ah-ha, ha, ha!
Gimme that!"
"Say there, Lizard and Stretchy Dog,
let me show you something."
"It looks as though I've been
accepted into your culture."
"Your chief, Andy,
inscribed his name on me."
TOGETHER: Wow!
With permanent ink too!
"Well, I must get back
to repairing my ship."
Don't let it get to you, Woody.
"Uh... let what? I don't, uh...
What do you mean? Who?"
"I know Andy's
excited about Buzz."
"But you know he'll always have
a special place for you."
"-Yeah, like the attic. (CHUCKLING)
-All right, that's it!"
"-(TONAL HUMMlNG SOUND)
-Hmm. Unidirectional bonding strip."
Mr. Lightyear wants more tape.
(HUMMING) Hmm?
"Listen, Light Snack,
you stay away from Andy."
"He's mine, and no one
is taking him away from me."
What are you talking about?
"-Where's that bonding strip?
-(BEEPlNG SOUND)"
And another thing,
"stop with this spaceman thing!
It's getting on my nerves!"
"Are you saying you wanna lodge
a complaint with Star Command?"
"Oh-ho, okay! Ooh, well, so you wanna
do it the hard way, huh?"
"-Don't even think about it, cowboy.
-Oh, yeah, tough guy?"
"-(MECHANICAL WHOOSH)
-(GASPS)"
(CHOKING)
(CHOKING CONTINUES)
"(PANTING, SNIFFING)
The air isn't... toxic."
"How dare you open a spaceman's
helmet on an uncharted planet!"
"My eyeballs could've been
sucked from their sockets!"
"You actually think
you're the Buzz Lightyear?"
"(LAUGHING) Oh, all this time
I thought it was an act!"
"Hey, guys, look!
It's the real Buzz Lightyear!"
"You're mocking me,
aren't you?"
"Oh, no, no. No, no, no, no, no.
Buzz, look, an alien!"
"-Where?
-(LAUGHING)"
"-(LAUGHING CONTINUES)
-(DOG BARKING)"
"-(BARKING CONTINUES)
-BOY: (LAUGHING) Yes!"
"-Whoa!
-Uh-oh."
It's Sid!
"-(TEETH CHATTERING)
-SID: Don't Move!"
I thought he was at summer camp.
"They must've kicked him out
early this year."
"-(ROBOT BUZZlNG)
-REX: Oh, no, not Sid!"
"-SID: (GRUNTING) Incoming!
-(DOG BARKING)"
"-Who is it this time?
-I... I can't... I can't tell."
"-Hey, where's Lenny?
-Right here, Woody."
"Oh, no, I can't bear to watch
one of these again."
"WOODY: Oh, no,
it's a Combat Carl."
What's going on?
"Nothing that concerns you spacemen,
just us toys."
I'd better take a look anyway.
(SID SHOUTING)
"BUZZ: Why is that soldier
strapped to an explosive device?"
That's why, Sid.
"-(BARKING)
-Hmm, sure is a hairy fellow."
No, no, that's Scud, you idiot.
"-That is Sid.
-(SINISTER LAUGHTER)"
"-You mean that happy child?
-That ain't no happy child."
He tortures toys, just for fun!
"-(BARKING)
-(GRUNTING)"
"Well, then we've got
to do something."
"What are you doing?
Get down from there!"
"-I'm gonna teach that boy a lesson.
-Yeah, sure. You go ahead."
"-Melt him with your scary laser.
-(BUZZlNG)"
"Be careful with that!
It's extremely dangerous."
"He's lighting it!
He's lighting it! Hit the dirt!"
(BO SCREAMS)
"-Look out!
-(EXPLOSION)"
"-(SCUD BARKING)
-Yes! He's gone! He's history!"
"-(LAUGHING) Whoo!
-I could've stopped him."
"Buzz, I would love
to see you try."
"Of course, I'd love
to see you as a crater."
"-The sooner we move, the better.
-(SID SHOUTING)"
"Yeah!
(LAUGHING)"
(CRICKETS CHIRPING)
ANDY: To infinity and beyond!
"(IMITATES ROCKET SOUNDS
AND EXPLOSIONS)"
"All this packing
makes me hungry."
"What would you say to dinner
at, oh, Pizza Planet?"
Pizza Planet? Oh, cool!
"MOM: (LAUGHS) Go wash your hands,
and I'll get Molly ready."
"-ANDY: Can I bring some toys?
-You can bring one toy."
"-Just one?
-One toy?"
"-(SIGHS)
-Hmm."
"-Will Andy pick me?
-(LIQUID SWISHING)"
"Don't count on it"? (GROANS)
(YELLS)
(THUD)
(BUZZ HUMMING)
(HUMMING CONTINUES)
Mmm!
"Buzz! Oh, Buzz!
Buzz Lightyear."
"(PANTING) Buzz Lightyear,
thank goodness. We've got trouble!"
"-Trouble? Where?
-Down there. Just down there."
"A helpless toy, it's...
it's trapped, Buzz!"
Then we've no time to lose.
I don't see anything!
"Oh, he's there!
Just, just keep looking!"
"-What kind of toy... (GASPS)
-(GASPS)"
Oh! Whoa, whoa! Oh!
"-(SCREAMS)
-TOGETHER: Buzz!"
"-Buzz!
-(TOYS CHATTERING)"
"SLINKY: I don't see him
in the driveway."
"-I think he bounced into Sid's yard!
-Oh! Buzz!"
(HORN HONKING)
"Hey, everyone, R.C.'s trying to
say something. What is it, boy?"
"-He's saying that this was no accident.
-What do you mean?"
"-I mean Humpty-Dumpty was pushed...
-No!"
...by Woody!
"-ALL: What?
-Wait a minute."
"You don't think I meant to knock Buzz
out the window, do you? Potato Head?"
"That's Mr. Potato Head to you,
you back-stabbing murderer!"
"-(GASPS)
-Now, it was an accident, guys."
"Come on.
Now, you, you gotta believe me."
"We believe ya, Woody.
Right, Rex?"
"Well, ye... N...
I don't like confrontations!"
"Where is your honor, dirt bag?
You are an absolute disgrace!"
You don't deserve to... Hey!
"You couldn't handle Buzz cutting
in on your playtime, could you, Woody?"
"Didn't wanna face the fact that Buzz
just might be Andy's new favorite toy."
So you got rid of him.
"Well, what ifAndy starts playing
with me more, Woody, huh?"
"You gonna knock me
outta the window too?"
"I don't think we should
give him the chance."
"SERGEANT: There he is, men.
Frag him!"
"Let's string him up
by his pull string!"
"HAMM: I got dibs on his hat!
BO: Would you boys stop it!"
Tackle him!
"No, no, no! Wait!
I can explain everything!"
"ANDY: Okay, Mom, be right down.
I've gotta get Buzz."
SERGEANT: Retreat!
"Mom, do you know
where Buzz is?"
"-MOM: No, I haven't seen him.
-Psst!"
"-MOM: Andy, I'm heading out the door!
-But, Mom, I can't find him!"
"Honey, just grab some other toy.
Now, come on!"
Oh, okay.
"I couldn't find my Buzz.
I know I left him right there."
"Honey, I'm sure he's around.
You'll find him."
(IGNITION STARTS)
(CHITTERING)
"It's too short!
We need more monkeys!"
"There aren't any more!
That's the whole barrel!"
"Buzz, the monkeys
aren't working!"
"We're formulating another plan!
Stay calm!"
Oh, where could he be?
(SERVICE BELL DINGS)
"-Can I help pump the gas?
-Sure! I'll even let you drive."
"-Yeah?
-Yeah, when you're 1 6."
"-Yuk, yuk, yuk! Funny, Mom.
-(LAUGHING)"
"Aw, great. How am I gonna convince
those guys it was an accident?"
Buzz!
Buzz! Ha! You're alive!
"This is great!
Oh, I'm saved! I'm saved."
"Andy'll find you here,
he'll take us back to the room"
"and then you can tell everyone
that this was all just a big mistake."
"Huh? Right?
(PANTING) Buddy?"
"I just want you to know that even
though you tried to terminate me,"
"revenge is not an idea
we promote on my planet."
"-Oh. Well, that's good.
-But we're not on my planet, are we?"
"-No. (SCREAMING)
-(BUZZ GRUNTING)"
"(BUZZ GRUNTING,
SPACESUIT BUZZING, BEEPING)"
(SCREAMING, GROANS)
Okay, come on!
WOODY: You want a piece of me?
(YELLS)
(SQUEAKING)
Owww!
"VOICE BOX: Buzz, Buzz,
Buzz Lightyear to the rescue."
"-Aah-ouch!
-MOM: Next stop."
Pizza Planet! Yeah!
"(DOOR SLIDES SHUT,
IGNITION STARTS)"
"-(DOOR SHUTS)
-(GASPS) Andy!"
"(PANTING) Wh... Doesn't he realize
that I'm not there?"
(LOUD GASP) I'm lost!
(SOBS) Oh, I'm a lost toy!
(SNIFFLING, SOBBING)
Buzz Lightyear mission log.
"The local sheriff and I seem to be at
a huge refueling station of some sort."
You!
"(TRUCK APPROACHING,
HORN HONKING)"
(BRAKES SQUEALING)
(ENGINE IDLING)
"-According to my navi-computer, the...
-(GASPS) Shut up!"
"-Just shut up, you idiot!
-Sheriff, this is no time to panic."
"This is the perfect time to panic.
I'm lost. Andy is gone."
"They're gonna move from their house
in two days, and it's all your fault!"
"My... My fault? If you hadn't pushed me
out of the window in the first place..."
Oh, yeah?
"Well, if you hadn't shown up in your
stupid little cardboard spaceship"
"and taken away everything
that was important to me..."
"Don't talk to me
about importance!"
"Because of you the security
of this entire universe is in jeopardy!"
"What? What are
you talkin' about?"
"Right now, poised at
the edge of the galaxy, Emperor Zurg"
"has been secretly building
a weapon"
"with the destructive capacity
to annihilate an entire planet!"
"I alone have information that reveals
this weapon's only weakness."
"And you, my friend,
are responsible"
"for delaying my rendezvous
with Star Command!"
You... are... a... toy!
"You aren't the real
Buzz Lightyear! You're a..."
"You're an action figure!
You are a child's plaything!"
"You are a sad, strange little man,
and you have my pity."
Farewell.
"Oh, yeah?
Well, good riddance, ya loony!"
"-"Rendezvous with Star Command."
-(CAR APPROACHING)"
"DRIVER: Hey, gas dude!
ATTENDANT: You talkin' to me?"
"-Yeah, man. Can you help me?
-Pizza Planet? Andy!"
"Do you know
where Cutting Boulevard is?"
Oh, no!
"I can't show my face
in that room without Buzz."
"-Buzz! Buzz, come back!
-Go away!"
"No! Buzz, you gotta
come back! I..."
"-(ENGINE REVVING)
-I found a spaceship!"
It's a spaceship, Buzz!
"Come on, man, hurry up! Um, like,
the pizzas are getting cold here!"
"-ATTENDANT: Cutting Boulevard, huh?
-Yeah, yeah. Which way?"
"Now, you're sure this space freighter
will return to its port of origin"
"-once it jettisons its food supply?
-Uh-huh."
"And when we get there, we'll be able
to find a way to transport you home."
"-Well, then, let's climb aboard.
-No, no, no, wait, Buzz! Buzz!"
"Let's get in the back.
No one will see us there."
"Negative. There are no restraining
harnesses in the cargo area."
"-We'll be much safer in the cockpit.
-Yeah, bu..."
Buzz! Buzz!
"DRIVER: That's two lefts
and a right, huh?"
"-Thanks for the directions, okay?
-Yeah. And remember, kid..."
"-Buzz!
-(IGNITION STARTS)"
(SCREAMS)
"It's safer in the cockpit
than the cargo bay. What an idiot."
"-(TIRES SCREECH)
-(GRUNTS, GROANS)"
"-(ROCK MUSlC PLAYS ON STEREO)
-(TIRES SQUEALING)"
(YELLING, GROANING)
(SCREAMS)
(CAR HORN HONKING)
"-(BRAKES SCREECH)
-(DOOR SIGNAL BUZZING)"
"MAN ON PA: Next shuttle lift-off
is scheduled for"
"-T-minus 30 minutes and counting.
-(JETS HUMMING)"
ROBOT: You are clear to enter.
Welcome to Pizza Planet.
"WOMAN ON PA:
The white zone is for immediate pizza..."
"-Sheriff!
-(GRUNTS, GROANS)"
There you are.
"Now, the entrance is heavily guarded.
We need a way to get inside."
"-(COUGHING)
-Great idea, Woody."
I like your thinkin'.
"ROBOT: You are clear to enter.
Welcome to Pizza Planet."
BUZZ: Now!
"Quickly, Sheriff!
The air lock is closing."
"WOMAN ON PA: Jones, party
of five, your shuttle is now boarding..."
"BOY: Hey, Mom,
can we have some tokens?"
Ow! Watch where you're going!
Sorry.
(GROANS)
"MAN ON PA:
...nine, eight, seven, six,"
"-five, four, three,
-(CHILDREN SHOUTING)"
two, one.
"What a spaceport!
Good work, Woody."
(BEEPING, FIRES)
"Mom, can I play Black Hole?
Please, please, please?"
"-Andy!
-Now, we need to find a ship"
"-that's headed for Sector 1 2.
-Wait a minute. No, Buzz! This way."
"-There's a special ship. I just saw it.
-You mean it has hyperdrive?"
Hyperactive hyperdrive.
"-(CHATTERING)
-And Astro... turf!"
"-Where is it? I-I don't see the...
-Come on. That's it."
Spaceship!
"All right, Buzz, get ready.
And..."
"-And the universe explodes!
-Okay, Buzz, when I say go,"
"we're gonna jump in the basket.
Buzz!"
"-(GRUNTS) No!
-ANDY: Mom, if I eat all my pizza,"
can I have some alien slime?
This cannot be happening to me.
(GASPS)
(OBJECTS SQUEAKING)
"-A stranger.
-From the outside."
"-ALIENS TOGETHER: Ooh!
-Greetings. I am Buzz Lightyear."
"-I come in peace.
-(ALL GIBBERING)"
"MAN ON PA: Before your
space journey, re-energize yourself"
"with a slice of pepperoni,
now boarding at counter three."
"BUZZ: This is an
intergalactic emergency."
"I need to commandeer
your vessel to Sector 1 2."
Who's in charge here?
ALIENS: The claw!
The claw is our master.
"The claw chooses who will go
and who will stay."
"-This is ludicrous. (GASPS)
-Hey, bozo, you got a brain in there?"
"-(LAUGHING) Take that!
-(BUZZlNG)"
Oh, no! Sid!
"-Get down!
-(GRUNTS)"
What's gotten into you? I was...
"You are the one that decided
to climb into this..."
Shh! The claw, it moves.
(ALIENS SQUEAKING)
"(SQUEAKS)
I have been chosen!"
"Farewell, my friends.
I go on to a better place."
Gotcha!
"A Buzz Lightyear?
No way!"
"-(COIN CLICKING)
-(ALIEN SQUEAKS)"
(SQUEAK)
(GRUNTING)
(CLAW BUZZING)
"-SID: Yes!
-(GASPS)"
Buzz! No! (GRUNTING)
"-Hey!
-(GRUNTING)"
"-(GRUNTING)
-He has been chosen!"
"-He must go.
-Hey!"
"-What are you doing?
-Do not fight the claw."
Stop it! Stop it, you zealots!
"All right!
Double prizes!"
Let's go home and... play.
(SINISTER CHUCKLE)
(CHATTERS, GRUNTS)
(HUMMING)
"Sheriff, I can see
your dwelling from here."
"-You're almost home.
-Nirvana is coming."
"-The mystic portal awaits.
-Will you be quiet?"
You guys don't get it, do you?
"Once we go into Sid's house,
we won't be coming out."
"-(BARKING)
-Whoa, Scud! Hey, boy!"
"-Sit! Good boy.
-(GROWLING)"
"-Hey, I got something for you, boy.
-Freeze!"
"-(GROWLS, PANTING)
-Ready, set, now!"
"-(SNARLING)
-(ALIEN SQUEAKING)"
"Hannah!
Hey, Hannah!"
"-What?
-Did I get my package in the mail?"
"-I don't know.
-What do you mean you don't know?"
"-I don't know!
-(SIGHS)"
"-Oh, no, Hannah! Look, Janie!
-What? Hey!"
"-She's sick!
-No, she's not!"
"I'll have to perform
one of my operations."
"-HANNAH: No!
-No, not Sid's room. Not there."
Hey, give her back!
Sid! Sid!
"Oh, no, we have
a sick patient here, nurse."
"-(BANGING ON DOOR)
-Prepare the OR, stat!"
"(SINISTER CHUCKLE)
Patient is... prepped."
"No one's ever attempted a double
bypass brain transplant before."
"Now for the tricky part.
Pliers!"
"I don't believe that man's
ever been to medical school."
"(CHUCKLES, IMITATES NURSE)
Doctor, you've done it!"
Hannah!
"-Janie's all better now.
-(SCREAMING)"
"HANNAH: Mom! Mom!
SID: She's lying!"
"Whatever she says,
it's not true!"
(DEPARTING FOOTFALLS)
(GASPING, SHUDDERING)
(SHUDDERING)
"We are gonna die.
I'm outta here!"
Locked.
"There's gotta be another way
outta here."
(RUSTLING)
"Uh, Buzz?
W-Was that you?"
"-(TEETH CHATTERING, GASPS)
-(CREAKING)"
(RUSTLING)
(CREAKING)
Hey, hi there, little fella.
"Come out here.
Do you know a way outta here?"
(GASPS, TEETH CHATTERING)
(GASPS)
(GASPS)
"(BOX PLAYS
POP GOES THE WEASEL)"
(YELLS, MUTTERING, GIBBERING)
B-B-B-B-Bu... Buzz!
"-They're cannibals.
-(GASPS)"
"-(BUZZES)
-Mayday, mayday."
"Come in, Star Command.
Send reinforcements."
"-(TEETH CHATTERING)
-Star Command, do you copy?"
"-(BUZZlNG)
-I've set my laser from stun to kill."
"Aw, great. Great. Yeah, and if anyone
attacks us, we can blink 'em to death."
(RUSTLING)
"REX: Hey, you guys,
I think I found him!"
"-Buzz, is that you?
-(CAT YOWLS)"
"Whiskers, will you
get outta here!"
"You're interfering
with the search and rescue!"
"-(CAR APPROACHING)
-(GASPS) Look, they're home."
Mom, have you seen Woody?
"-Where was the last place you left him?
-Right here in the van."
"Oh, I'm sure he's there.
You're just not looking hard enough."
"He's not here, Mom.
Woody's gone."
(GASPS) Woody's gone?
Yeah, boy, the weasel ran away.
"Huh? Huh?
I told you he was guilty."
"Who would've thought he was
capable of such atrocities?"
"Oh, Slink,
I hope he's okay."
"SID: Oh, a survivor.
Where's the rebel base? Talk!"
I can see your will is strong.
"Well, we have ways
of making you talk."
(SIZZLING)
"Where are your rebel friends now?
(SINISTER CHUCKLE)"
"SID'S MOM:
Sid, your Pop Tarts are ready!"
All right!
"-(SIZZLING CONTINUES)
-(SCREAMING)"
(GRUNTING)
"Are you all right?
I'm proud of you, Sheriff."
"A lesser man would've talked
under such torture."
I sure hope this isn't permanent.
"Still no word from Star Command.
We're not that far from the space port."
"The door. It's open!
We're free!"
Woody, we don't know what's out there!
I'll tell you wha... (SCREAMS)
"They're gonna eat us, Buzz!
Do something quick!"
"-Shield your eyes.
-(BUZZlNG)"
"It's not working. I recharged it
before I left. It should be good for..."
"You idiot! You're a toy!
Use your karate chop action!"
"-Get away! Hoo-cha!
-Hey! Hey! How're you doin' that?"
"-Stop that.
-Back! Back, you savages! Back!"
"-Woody, stop it!
-Sorry, guys, but dinner's canceled!"
"There's no place like home!
There's no place like home!"
"-There's no place like home. (GASPS)
-(SNARLING)"
(SNORING)
(MUFFLED YELL, GASPING)
"Another stunt like that, cowboy,
you're gonna get us killed."
"-Don't tell me what to do.
-Shh!"
(SNORING CONTINUES)
(HEAVY BREATHING)
"VOlCE BOX: Yee-haw!
Giddyap, pardner!"
"We got to get this wagon train
a-movin'!"
(SNARLING)
(GROWLING)
"-Split up!
-(SCUD GROWLING)"
(SNIFFING)
(SNARLING) Hmm?
(GROWLING)
(SNORING)
(SNARLS, PANTING)
"MAN: Calling Buzz Lightyear.
Come in, Buzz Lightyear."
"-This is Star Command.
-Star Command!"
"-Buzz Lightyear, do you read me?
-BOY: Buzz Lightyear responding."
Read you loud and clear.
"MAN: Buzz Lightyear,
planet Earth needs your help."
"BOY: On the way!
CHORUS: Buzz Lightyear!"
"ANNOUNCER: The world's
greatest superhero!"
Now the world's greatest toy!
"Buzz has it all!
Locking wrist communicator!"
"-BOY: Calling Buzz Lightyear!
-Karate chop action!"
"-BOY: Wow!
-Pulsating laser light!"
"-BOY: Total annihilation!
-Multi-phrase voice simulator!"
"VOlCE BOX: There's a secret mission
in uncharted space."
"VOlCE BOX: There's a secret mission
in uncharted space."
"And best of all,
high pressure space wings!"
"-To infinity and beyond!
-ANNOUNCER 2: Not a flying toy."
"ANNOUNCER 1 : Get your
Buzz Lightyear action figure"
"-and save a galaxy near you!
-CHORUS: Buzz Lightyear!"
"Available at all Al's Toy Barn outlets
in the tri-county area."
"SPORTSCASTER:
And welcome back to the"
"Point Richmond
Bowling Championship."
(SPORTSCASTER CONTlNUES)
♪ Out among the stars l sail
♪ Way beyond the moon
♪ ln my silver ship l sailed
"♪ To a dream
that ended too soon"
♪ Now l know exactly
♪ Who l am and what l'm here for
"-(CHIRPING)
-WOODY'S VOlCE: You are a toy!"
You can't fly!
♪ And l will go sailing
♪ No more
♪ But no, it can't be true
♪ l could fly if l wanted to
♪ Like a bird in the sky
♪ lf l believed l could fly
♪ Why, l'd fly
To infinity and beyond!
♪ Clearly, l
♪ Will go sailing
♪ No more ♪
"Mom! Mom, have you seen
my Sally doll?"
"-(CLICK)
-MOM: What, dear? What was that?"
Never mind!
(RATTLING)
Oof! Oof! (GROANS)
"Buzz, the coast is clear.
Buzz, where are you?"
"BUZZ'S VOlCE BOX: There's a secret
mission in uncharted space. Let's go."
"HANNAH: Really?
That is so interesting."
"Would you like some tea,
Mrs. Nesbitt?"
(GASPS) Buzz!
"It's so nice you could join us
on such late notice."
"-Oh, no!
-What a lovely hat, Mrs. Nesbitt."
It goes quite well with your head.
"(CLEARS THROAT,
IMITATING MOTHER) Hannah!"
Oh, Hannah!
Mom? Please excuse me, ladies.
I'll be right back.
"What is it, Mom?
Mom, where are you?"
"Buzz. Hey.
Buzz, are you okay?"
"Gone!
(SNIFFLES) It's all gone."
"All of it's gone.
Bye-bye. Whoo-whoo. See ya."
What happened to you?
"One minute you're defending
the whole galaxy."
"And suddenly you find yourself
suckin' down Darjeeling with"
"Marie Antoinette
and her little sister."
(CHUCKLES)
"I think you've had
enough tea for today."
Let's get you outta here, Buzz.
"Don't you get it?
You see the hat?"
"-I am Mrs. Nesbitt! Ha-ha-ha-ha!
-Snap out of it, Buzz!"
"(HYSTERICAL CHUCKLING,
SQUEAKS)"
"I-I-I-I'm sorry. I...
You're right."
"I am just a little depressed.
That's all."
I can get through this.
"-Oh, I'm a sham!
-Shh!"
"-Look at me.
-Quiet, Buzz."
I can't even fly out of a window.
"The hat looked good?
Tell me the hat looked good."
"-The apron is a bit much.
-"Out the window"!"
Buzz, you're a genius!
"-(CRYING)
-Come on, come on. This way."
Years of academy, training, wasted!
Ha, ha. B-3.
"-Miss! G-6.
-Oh!"
"-You sunk it. Are you peeking?
-Heh, heh!"
"Oh, quit your whinin' and pay up.
No, no, not the ear."
"-Give me the nose. Come on.
-How about three out of five?"
(STRAINING) Hey, guys! Guys! Hey!
"-Son of a building block. It's Woody.
-He's in the psycho's bedroom."
"-Ha, ha! Hi!
-Everyone! It's Woody!"
"-Woody?
-You're kidding!"
"-Woody?
-Ha! We're gonna get outta here, Buzz."
Buzz?
(IMITATING AIRPLANE)
(SPUTTERING, CRASHING)
"-Hey, look!
-Woody!"
"Oh, boy, am I glad
to see you guys."
"-I knew you'd come back, Woody.
-What are you doin' over there?"
"It's a long story, Bo.
I'll explain later."
Here! Catch this!
BO: Ha!
"-Whoa! I've got it, Woody.
-He got it, Woody."
"Good goin', Slink. Nowjust,
just tie it on to somethin'."
"Wait, wait, wait, wait. I got
a better idea. How 'bout we don't?"
"-Hey!
-Potato Head."
"Did you all take stupid pills
this morning?"
"Have you forgotten
what he did to Buzz?"
"And now you wanna let him
back over here?"
"No! No, no, no, no, no! You got it...
You got it all wrong, Potato Head."
"Buzz is fine. Buzz is right here.
He's with me!"
"-You are a liar!
-No, I'm not. Buzz, come over here."
"Tell the nice toys that you're...
that you're not dead."
(GASPS, SPUTTERS) Just a sec!
"Buzz, will you get up here
and give me a hand?"
(CHUCKLING) That's very funny, Buzz.
"-This is serious!
-REX: Hey, Woody! Where'd ya go?"
"POTATO HEAD: He's lying.
Buzz ain't there."
Oh! Hi, Buzz!
"Why don't you say hello
to the guys over there?"
"(AS BUZZ) Hiya, fellas!
To infinity and beyond!"
Hey, look! It's Buzz!
"Hey, Buzz, let's show the guys
our new secret best friends handshake."
Give me five, man!
Something's screwy here.
"So you see we're friends now, guys.
Aren't we, Buzz?"
"(AS BUZZ) You bet.
Give me a hug."
Ho-ho! Boy, I love you too.
See? It is Buzz.
"-Now give back the lights, Potato Head.
-Wait just a minute."
"-What are you tryin' to pull?
-Nothing!"
"-(SCREAMING)
-(GROUP MURMURING)"
(GRUNTS, RETCHES)
"-Oh, that is disgusting.
-Murderer!"
"-No! No, no, no, no, no!
-You murdering dog!"
"-It's not what you think. I swear!
-Save it for the jury."
"I hope Sid pulls
your voice box out, ya creep."
"No, no! No, no!
Don't leave! Don't leave!"
"Ya gotta help us, please! You don't
know what it's like over here!"
"Come on.
Let's get outta here."
"Go back to your lives, citizens.
Show's over."
WOODY: Come back! Slink!
"Slink! Please!
Please! Listen to me!"
No! No! Come back!
Slinky!
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(THUMPING, CLATTERING)
Buzz! Go away!
"You disgusting freaks!
Aaah!"
"All right, back!
Back, you cannibals! Aah! Oof!"
"He is still alive, and you're
not gonna get him, you monsters!"
What are you doin'?
Hey. Hey, they fixed you.
But-But they're cannibals.
"We saw them eat
those other toys."
(QUACKS)
"Uh, sorry. I-I-I thought
that you were gonna..."
"(CHUCKLES) You know,
you know, eat my friend."
WOODY: Hey, no, no, wait, hey!
"-What's wrong?
-SID'S MOM: Sid?"
"SID: Not now, Mom!
I'm busy!"
"-Sid! Buzz, come on!
-MOM: You left that door open."
"Get up! Use your legs! Fine!
Let Sid trash you! But don't blame me!"
"It came!
It finally came!"
Ha, ha!
"The Big One."
"Extremely dangerous.
"Keep out of reach of children."
"Cool!
What am I gonna blow?"
"Man. Hey, where's
that wimpy cowboy doll?"
(BUZZ BUZZlNG)
"Yes. I've always wanted
to put a spaceman into orbit."
"-(TAPE UNREELING)
-SID: Heh, heh."
Now. Yes.
(SINISTER CHUCKLE)
"-(THUNDERCLAP)
-Oh, no!"
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Oh, man!
Sid Phillips reporting.
"Launch of the shuttle
has been delayed"
"due to adverse weather
conditions at the launch site."
Tomorrow's forecast, sunny.
"(SINISTER CHUCKLE)
Sweet dreams."
(FOOTFALLS APPROACHING)
"MOM: I looked everywhere, honey,
but all I could find was your hat."
"But what if we
leave them behind?"
Oh, don't worry, honey.
"I'm sure we'll find Woody and Buzz
before we leave tomorrow."
(DOOR CREAKS, CLOSES)
REX: (GASPS) I need air!
Will you quit movin' around?
"I'm sorry. It's just that I get...
I get so nervous before I travel."
"How did I get stuck
with you as a moving buddy?"
Everyone else was picked.
(SNORING)
BO: Oh, Woody.
"If only you could see
how much Andy misses you."
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(SNORING)
(STRAINING)
Psst. Psst! Hey, Buzz!
"Hey. Get over here and see if
you can get this toolbox off me."
Oh, come on, Buzz, I...
"Buzz, I can't do this without you.
I need your help."
"I can't help.
I can't help anyone."
"Why, sure you can, Buzz.
You can get me outta here."
"Then I'll get that rocket off you, and
we'll make a break for Andy's house."
"Andy's house, Sid's house.
What's the difference?"
"Oh, Buzz. You've had a big fall.
You must not be thinking clearly."
"No, Woody. For the first time
I am thinking clearly."
"You were right all along.
I'm not a Space Ranger."
"I'm just a toy, a stupid,
little, insignificant toy."
Whoa, hey, wait a minute.
"Bein' a toy is a lot better
than bein' a, a Space Ranger."
"-Yeah, right.
-No, it is."
"Look, over in that house is a kid
who thinks you are the greatest."
"And it's not because
you're a Space Ranger, pal."
"It's because you're a toy.
You are his toy."
But why would Andy want me?
"Why would Andy want you?
Look at you! You're a Buzz Lightyear."
"Any other toy would give up
his moving parts just to be you."
"You've got wings.
You glow in the dark. You talk!"
"Your helmet does
that, that, that whoosh thing."
You are a cool toy.
"As a matter of fact,
you're too cool."
"I mean, I mean, what chance
does a toy like me have"
"against a Buzz Lightyear
action figure?"
All I can do is...
"VOlCE BOX:
There's a snake in my boots."
"Why would Andy ever want
to play with me"
when he's got you?
"I'm the one that should be
strapped to that rocket."
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
Listen, Buzz, forget about me.
"You should get outta here
while you can."
(CHIRPING CONTINUES)
(SIGHS)
(CLATTERING)
"Buzz? What are you doin'?
I thought you were..."
"Come on, sheriff. There's a kid
over in that house who needs us."
"Now let's get you out of this thing.
(GRUNTS)"
Yes, sir!
"-(STRAINING)
-Come on, Buzz. We can do it."
"-(GRUNTS)
-(ENGINE APPROACHING)"
Woody, it's the moving van.
We gotta get outta here now.
(GRUNTS)
Come on, Buzz.
All right. (GRUNTS)
"-Hey, I'm out!
-Almost there."
"(SPUTTERS)
I want to ride the pony."
"-(SNORES)
-Phew."
"Woody? Woody?
Are you all right?"
I'm fine. I'm okay.
(RINGING)
(RINGING CONTINUES)
(RINGING CONTINUES)
"(CLOCK CLATTERS ON FLOOR,
RINGING STOPS)"
"Oh, yeah!
Time for lift-off! Whoo!"
To infinity and beyond!
Whoo-hoo!
(GROWLS, BARKS, SNARLING)
"-Aah! Back, back.
-(BARKS, YELPS)"
"-Down, down!
-(BARKS)"
"Okay, what do I do?
Come on, Woody. Think."
(TOYS CLATTERING)
Guys!
"No, no, no, no! Wait!
Wait. Listen, please."
"There's a good toy down there, and he's
gonna be blown to bits in a few minutes."
"All because of me.
We gotta save him."
"And, uh...
But I need your help."
(TOY CREAKING)
Please. He's my friend.
And he's the only one I've got.
(TAPPING MORSE CODE)
"-(TOY TRUMPETING)
-(TAPPING CONTINUES)"
"Thank you.
Okay, I think I know what to do."
"We're gonna have
to break a few rules."
"But if it works,
it'll help everybody."
(SIGHS)
(POUNDING)
"SID: Houston to Mission Control.
Come in, Control."
Launch pad is being constructed.
"-(GROWLS)
-WOODY: All right, listen up."
"I need Pump Boy here,
Ducky here."
"-Legs, you're with Ducky.
-(QUACKS)"
"RollerBob and I don't move
'til we get the signal. Clear?"
"-(QUACKS)
-Okay. Let's move!"
(BARKS)
(BARKING CONTINUES)
(QUACKS)
Wind the frog.
"-(POP GOES THE WEASEL PLAYING)
-(DOG SNARLS)"
"-(CHITTERS)
-(FROG REVS)"
(STRAINING)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
"-Wait for the signal.
-(FROG REVS)"
(QUACKS, MUTTERS)
(MUTTERING)
(BLUBBERS)
"-(RINGING)
-Go!"
"-(GROWLS)
-(ENGINE REVVING)"
"-(BARKS)
-All right, let's go!"
HANNAH: I'll get it!
Now!
"-I'm coming. I'm coming.
-(RINGING CONTINUES)"
"-(QUACKS)
-(BARKING CONTINUES)"
(BARKING)
"-(YELPS)
-Scud!"
"-(LAUGHING)
-(SNARLS)"
"-(BARKS)
-Stupid dog."
(BARKING CONTINUES)
Lean back!
"SID: Uh, Mission Control, is
the launch pad construction complete?"
"Uh, roger. Rocket is now
secured to guide wire."
"We are currently obtaining
the ignition sticks."
"Countdown will commence
momentarily."
"-Stand by.
-Let's go."
"Hey, Ma! Where are the matches?
Oh, wait. Here they are. Never mind."
"Woody! Great!
Help me outta this thing."
"-Shh!
-What?"
It's okay. Everything's under control.
"(WHISPERING) Woody,
what are you doing?"
"Houston. All systems are go.
Requesting permission to launch..."
Hey? How'd you get out here?
"Oh, well. You and I
can have a cookout later."
(CHUCKLES)
"Houston, do we have
permission to launch?"
"(IMITATING RADIO STATIC)
Uh, roger. Permission granted."
"You are confirmed
at "T" minus ten seconds."
"And counting.
Ten, nine,"
eight, seven, six,
five, four, three, two,
one!
"WOODY'S VOlCE BOX:
Reach for the sky!"
Huh?
"This town ain't big enough
for the two of us."
What?
Somebody's poisoned the water hole.
"-It's busted.
-Who are you callin' busted, buster?"
"-(WHIMPERS)
-That's right."
"-l'm talking to you, Sid Phillips.
-(GASPS)"
We don't like bein' blown up, Sid,
or smashed or ripped apart.
"-"We"?
-That's right! Your toys!"
Mama!
Mama!
Mama! Mama!
(GASPS)
(SQUEAKS)
(GASPS)
Aaah! (GASPS)
Aaah!
"-(GASPS)
-Mama!"
"From now on, you must take
good care of your toys!"
"Because if you don't,
we'll find out, Sid."
We toys can see everything.
So play nice.
Aaah!
"Ha-ha! We did it!
We did it! Ha-ha! Yes!"
"The toys!
The toys are alive!"
"N-Nice toy.
Aaah!"
"-(WHIMPERS)
-What's wrong, Sid?"
"-Don't you want to play with Sally?
-(SID SOBBING)"
"Nice work, fellows.
Good job."
"Comin' out of the ground, what a touch.
That was a stroke of genius."
Woody.
"-Thanks.
-(HORN HONKS)"
"MOTHER:
Everybody say, "Bye, house!""
"-Woody! The van!
-ANDY: Bye, house."
(GRUNTS)
We gotta run! Thanks, guys!
(CAR DOOR SLIDES CLOSED)
(IGNITION STARTING)
"-Quick!
-(GRUNTS)"
(ENGINE REVVING)
Just go. I'll catch up.
(GRUNTS)
(TRUCK APPROACHING)
BOTH: Aaah!
Come on!
(GROWLS)
"-(GRUNTS)
-You can do it, Woody!"
(GRUNTS) I got it! Woo-hoo-hoo!
"-(SCUD BARKING)
-I made it."
-(GASPS)
"Aaah! Get away,
you stupid dog! Down!"
"-Down! Aah! Aah!
-Hold on, Woody!"
"(GRUNTS)
I can't do it."
"-(CLOTH RIPPING)
-Take care ofAndy for me!"
"-No!
-(YELPS)"
"-Buzz!
-(SNARLING)"
(SNARLING, BARKING)
"-(GRUNTS)
-(SCUD BARKING)"
"-Ow!
-Are we there already?"
"-Woody?
-How did you...?"
"-How'd he get here?
-Where have you...?"
"-What happened?
-Ow!"
"-What's goin' on?
-What's he takin'?"
Aha! There you are!
"-Hey. What's he doing?
-(WHIMPERS)"
"-Aah!
-He's at it again!"
"-(BARKS)
-(HORN BEEPING)"
"-(BARKING)
-(ENGINE REVVING)"
Ha, ha, ha!
"-Get him!
-Come on!"
(GASPS)
(BARKING)
"-(ROARS)
-Ah, ah, no, no!"
(BARKS)
(BARKS)
"No, no, no, no! Wait!
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!"
"-(BARKS)
-Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!"
"Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
(GROANS)"
(BARKS, PANTS)
"-Pig pile!
-(GRUNTS)"
Aaah!
"(HORN HONKING,
TIRES SCREECHING)"
"-(BARKING)
-(HORNS HONKING)"
"WOMAN: Get outta that car!
MAN: Move it!"
